This is a project idea for the [[Automatically Defined Functions|ADF subteam]]. This is a project that won't require much work to implement, but researching and testing for the right entropy metric will be difficult. In fact this project may even need to merge with [[ADF-Primitive-Analysis]] into a general analysis project.

=== Entropy in GP ===
Entropy describes the diversity of a GP population. A population containing very similar individuals would have low entropy, and a population containing a diverse set of individuals would have high entropy. The entropy metric will require splitting the population into groups. The method for doing this has been proposed in many different ways, which include tree similarity and fitness groupings. It may be helpful to talk with the [[Bloat Control]] sub-team about their speciation method.

Knowing the entropy of the population can guide the decision between exploration vs exploitation. A more diverse population can afford to focus on improving the currently discovered individuals while a less diverse population will probably want to discover more unique individuals before trying to improve them more. The issue is that we are not sure if our ADFs cause a more or less diverse population, mostly because we don't have a definition of a "diverse population," which means we don't know if ADF production should increase or decrease if the population is diverse. That also means that we will need to find out through experimentation, although we luckily already have data sets with and without ADFs, although different types of ADFs may have different effects on entropy.

=== Work That Needs to be Done ===
* Research and define an Entropy metric
* Analyze past results do determine ADF's influence on entropy
* Change the number of ADFs generated each generation based on the entropy of the population