Samuel Huang (I-Ping Huang)

Summary as of Fall 2018:

Created the testing script testDota.py to run a single feature individual via caching (feature support) to measure performance and to test code durability.https://github.gatech.edu/emade/emade/commit/387fcf72a87f7a3a0080f7d93e1f7cf34ffe188b (the script is included in the following commit).

Helped worked on the following methods to make sure that caching can be applied to non-image data. Methods including load_feature_data_from_file, load_many_to_one_from_file, load_many_to_many_from_file, load_images_from_file.
https://github.gatech.edu/emade/emade/commit/42d9e98136dc583accf12d56875b0bdc750de5c6

Worked on every presentation! Spent a lot of time on them!

First presentation: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Lznq0MEnA3cxP7xfKtGu318tZiUl5P33J-REMxuesjM/edit

Second presentation: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/15WTkhGOo8j5PA9aJWFzsZ83dSuB4DNS40rvCXU1gcRw/edit

My comment as of Fall 2018:

Honestly spent most time just reading code with confusing method names with help from Austin. Our VIP cannot afford to lose Austin, only he understands on a higher level how different methods are interacting with each other. If I could, I would help refactor code to make it easier to understand, and also include docs so that later comers can understand what each portion of the code is doing. Lets be honest, these method names are hard to comprehend when the method body is also hard to grasp, (like : load_many_to_one_from_file and load_many_to_many_from_file.)