'''Name:''' Rohan Batra

'''Email:''' [mailto:rbatra34@gatech.edu]

'''Cell Phone:''' 470-909-8524

'''VIP:''' Automated Algorithm Design

'''Interests:''' Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Soccer, Guitar


== Fall 2021 ==
=== Week 1: August 25th - September 1st (2021) ===
'''Lecture Notes:'''
* Overview of Automated Algorithm Design Wiki, syllabus, notebooks, etc.
* Started lecture on Genetic Algorithms.

'''The Concept:''' With genetic algorithms, each new generation is created through mating/mutation of individuals in the previous population in order to arrive at the best individual possible.

* <u> The Concept </u>
** With genetic algorithms, each new generation is created through mating/mutation of individuals in the previous population  
** Their fitness is evaluated before mating/mutation.
** This fitness evaluation is done through the Fitness Proportionate method (randomization) or tournament method.
** Through numerous operations of the different processes, it will eventually produce the best individual 

* <u>Important Keywords</u>
** Algorithms: various evolutionary algorithms to create a solution or best individual.
** Individual: One specific candidate in the population (with properties such as DNA). In terms of programming this can be seen as a single solution to a problem.
** Population: Group of individuals whose properties will be altered. This refers to a number of solutions (set) for a problem.
** Objective: A value used to characterize individuals that you are trying to maximize or minimize. Usually the goal is to increase objective through the evolutionary algorithm.
** Fitness: Relative comparison to other individuals of the population.
** Evaluation: A function that computes the objective of an individual.
** Selection: This represents ‘survival of the fittest'. Preference given to better individuals, therefore allowing them to pass on their genes.
*** Fitness Proportionate: The greater the fitness value, the higher the probability of being selected for mating.
*** Tournament: Several tournament style competitions among various individuals. Winner selected for mating.
** Mate/Crossover: Represents mating between individuals.
** Mutate: Introduce random modification. The purpose is to maintain diversity.

* <u>The Process:</u>
** Randomly initialize population
** Determine fitness of population
** Select parents from population
** Perform crossover on parents creating population
** Perform mutation of population
** Determine fitness of population
** Repeat until best individual is good enough

'''<u>Action Items</u>'''
{| class="wikitable"
!Task
!Current Status
!Date Assigned
!Suspense Date
!Date Resolved
|-
|Set up DEAP library for Python
|In progress
|August 25th, 2021
|, 2021
|, 2021
|-
|Begin Notebook
|Completed
|August 25th, 2021
|September 1st, 2021
|August 25th, 2021
|-
|Complete Lab 1
|Completed
|August 25th, 2021
|, 2021
|, 2021
|}









