'''Name:''' Sai Nikhil Vangala

'''Email:''' [mailto:svangala3@gatech.edu]

'''Cell Phone:''' 502-600-3086

'''VIP:''' Automated Algorithm Design

'''Interests:''' Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Cloud Computing, Tennis, Watching Sports

= Fall 2021 =

== Week 1 (8/23 - 8/27) ==

=== Lecture Notes (8/25) ===
* With genetic algorithms, each new generation is created through mating/mutation of individuals in the process.
* Keywords:
** Individual: One specific candidate in the population
** Population: group of individuals whose properties will be altered.
** Objective: a value used to characterize individuals that you are trying to maximize or minimize
** Fitness:  relative comparison to other individuals.
** Evaluation: a function that computes the objective of an individual. 
** Selection: represents 'survival of the fittest'; gives preference to better individuals therefore allowing them to pass on their genes.
*** Fitness Proportionate: Great fitness value means higher the probability of being selected for mating.
*** Tournament: Several tournaments among individuals; winners are selected for mating.
** Mate/Crossover: represents mating between individuals
** Mutate: introduces random modifications; purpose is to maintain diversity
** Algorithms: various evolutionary algorithms to create a solution or best individual
*** Randomly initialize population
*** Determine fitness of population
*** Repeat….
**** Select parents from population
**** Perform mutation of population
****Determine fitness # of population
*** Until best individual is good enough.


===Lab 1: Genetic Algorithms with DEAP===
* One Max Problem: Very simply genetic algorithm problem in which we search for a 1 filled solution, basically to find a bit string containing all 1s with a set length.
** Imported all of the required modules such as DEAP.
** Defined the classes (fitness objective and individual) using DEAP's Creator.
** Defined the bit string individuals as a list of Booleans represented by 1s and 0s.
** Defined the genetic algorithm's genetic operators: evaluate, mate, mutate, select.
*** Evaluated the population
*** Ran the evolutionary process, 40 generations
*** Added selection
*** Used tournament selection on the population
*** Two-point crossover mating function
*** Flipping a bit in our bit string to either 1 or 0 respectively with an independent probability of flipping each individual bit of 5% for mutation
** 100.0 for the global maximum fitness was the norm in most of 40 generations, however due to the population's initial randomization, crossover and mutation probabilities, and the bit flips, there were clear discrepancies. In addition, this method is more effective than random search as there is optimization of the search space using respective fitness objectives.


* N Queens Problem: The problem is to determine a configuration of n queens on a nxn chessboard such that no queen can be taken by one another. In this version, each queen is assigned to one column, and only one queen can be on each line.
** Imported all of the required modules such as DEAP.
** Defined the classes (fitness objective and individual) using DEAP's Creator.
** Defined the toolbox and the evaluation function.
** Defined the crossover function: Two-Point.
** Defined the mutation function: partially matched crossover because it represents swapping around pairs of queen positions between two parent individuals: More effective. 
** Mutation that I added
    def mutUniform(individual, expr, pset):
    """Randomly select a point in the tree *individual*, then replace the
    subtree at that point as a root by the expression generated using method
    :func:`expr`.
    :param individual: The tree to be mutated.
    :param expr: A function object that can generate an expression when
                 called.
    :returns: A tuple of one tree.
    """
    index = random.randrange(len(individual))
    slice_ = individual.searchSubtree(index)
    type_ = individual[index].ret
    individual[slice_] = expr(pset=pset, type_=type_)
    return individual,
** Defined and ran evolutionary loop, 100 generations. 
** Although 100 generations were looped, the algorithm was not able to always achieve a global minimum of 0.0
** Original:
*** Best individual is [1, 6, 4, 11, 0, 18, 13, 17, 19, 12, 3, 9, 16, 5, 2, 15, 10, 8, 7, 14], (1.0,)
** Added Mutation Effect:
*** Best individual is [7, 12, 0, 5, 13, 11, 16, 8, 1, 9, 18, 3, 15, 17, 19, 4, 10, 14, 6, 2], (0.0,)
** Generated a visualization to speed up the algorithm improvement process and plotted the average, minimum, and maximum over 100 generations.

===Action Items===
{| class="wikitable"
!Task
!Current Status
!Date Assigned
!Suspense Date
!Date Resolved
|-
| Lab 1: Genetic Algorithms with DEAP
|Completed
|August 25, 2021
|September 1, 2021
|August 30, 2021
|-
|Notebook
|Completed
|August 25, 2021
|September 1, 2021
|August 30, 2021
|-
|Review Notes
|Completed
|August 25, 2021
|September 1, 2021
|August 30, 2021
|-
|Set-Up Slack
|Completed
|August 25, 2021
|September 1, 2021
|August 30, 2021
|}



== Week 2 (8/30 - 9/3) ==

=== Lecture Notes (9/1) ===
* Reviewed material on Genetic Algorithms form last week's meeting.
* Tree Representation
** We can represent a program as a tree structure
*** Nodes are called primitives and represent functions
*** Leaves are called terminals and represent parameters.
**** The input can be thought of as a particular type of terminal
**** The output is produced at the root of the tree.

* How is the Tree Stored?

** The tree is converted  into a '''lisp preordered parse tree'''
** The operator would be followed by inputs
** The tree for f(X) = 3 * 4 + 1 can be written as: [+,*,3,4,1]
** We do a depth-first traversal in this pre-ordered parse tree

* Crossover in Genetic Programming
** Basically exchanging subtrees
** Start by randomly picking a point in each tree
** These points and everything below create subtrees
** The subtrees are exchanged to produce children
** We take what's left of parent 1 and what's left of parent 2 and swap and create 2 child algorithms out of that

* Mutation in GP
** Mutation can involve…
*** Inserting a node or subtree
*** Deleting a node or subtree
*** Changing a node
** When we delete a node or subtree, we can perform a shrink operation to fill up that tree
** Any change we make locally to a tree, that is called a mutation
** Example: Symbolic Regression
*** Using simple primitives, use genetic programming to evolve a solution to y = sin(x)
*** Primitives include: +, *, -, /
*** Terminals include integers and X
** We solve this using a Calc 1 Concept of Taylor Series
*** Taylor Series for sin(x)

* Evaluating a tree
** We can feed a number of input points into the function to get outputs 
*** X = [0..2𝜋]
** We can measure error between outputs and truth.


===Lab 2: Symbolic Regression===
* Imported the libraries needed for GP.
* Created the fitness and individual classes
* Initialized primitive sets and all the primitives that the tree can use. 
** Best individual is add(add(x, multiply(x, multiply(add(x, multiply(x, x)), x))), multiply(x, x)), (1.1690561362729958e-16,)
* After adding the two new primitives (Sin and Cos) & new mutation (mutEphemeral): 
** Best individual is multiply(sin(add(x, x), cos(negative(subtract(cos(x, subtract(negative(x), x)), x)), x)), sin(multiply(subtract(sin(cos(sin(x, x), x), cos(x, x)), x), x), x)), (0.0,)
* Defined the toolbox, individual, population, and compiler.
* Registered genetic operators and added a new mutation and expanded it in the evolutionary loop as well. 
* Programmed the main evolutionary algorithm which prints out the individuals in a tree format being read from left to right.

===Action Items===
{| class="wikitable"
!Task
!Current Status
!Date Assigned
!Suspense Date
!Date Resolved
|-
|Notebook
|Completed
|September 1, 2021
|September 8, 2021
|September 8, 2021
|-
|Review Notes
|Completed
|September 1, 2021
|September 8, 2021
|September 8, 2021
|-
|Complete Lab 2: Symbolic Regression
|Completed
|September 1, 2021
|September 8, 2021
|September 8, 2021
|}



== Week 3 (9/6 - 9/10) ==

=== Lecture Notes (9/8) ===
* Genetic Programming Cycle
** New Gene Pool
** Evaluation
** Genes with scores
** Fitness Computation
** Genes with fitness
** Selection
** Parental Genes
** Mating
** Child Genes
** Mutation
** New Gene Pool
* Gene pool is a set of genome to be evaluated during the current generation.
** Genome
*** Genotypic description of an individuals
*** DNA
*** GA = set of values
*** GP = tree structure, string
** Search Space: Set of all possible genome. For AAD, set of all possible algorithms.
* Evaluation of a Genome assocites a genome/individual (set of parameters for GA or string for GP) with a set of scores.
* What are these scores
** True Positive - TP
*** How often are we identifying the desired object
** False Positive - FP
*** How often are we identifying something else as the desired object.
* Objectives
** set of measurements each genome is scored against
** phenotype
* Objectives Space: set of objectives
* Evaluation: Maps an genome/individual 
** From a location in search space
*** Genotypic description
** To a location in objective space
*** phenotype description

* Classification Measures
** Data Set: Positive Samples (P) and Negative Samples (N)
** Classifier
** Confusion Matrix: True Positive, False Negative (Type II Error), False Positive (Type I Error), True Negative

* Maximization Measures
** Sensitivity or True Positive Rate (TPR)
*** AKA hit rate or recall
*** TPR = TP/P = TP/(TP+FN)
** Specificity (SPC) or True Negative Rate (TNR)
*** TNR = TN/N = TN/(TN+FP)

* Minimization Measures
** False Negative Rate (FNR)
*** FNR = FN/P = FN/(TP+FN)
*** FNR = 1 - TPR
** Fallout or False Positive Rate (FPR)
*** FPR = FP/N = TN/(FP+TN)

* Other Measures
** Precision or Positive Predictive Value (PPV)
*** PPV = TP/(TP+FP)
*** Bigger is better
** False Discovery Rate
*** FDR = FP/(TP+FP)
*** FDR = 1 - PPV
*** Smaller is better
** Negative Predictive Value (NPV)
*** NPV = TN/(TN+FN)
*** Bigger is better
** Accuracy (ACC)
*** ACC = (TP+TN)/(P+N)
*** ACC = (TP+TN)/(TP+FP+FN+TN)
*** Bigger is better

* Objective Space
** Each individual is evaluated using objective functions
*** Mean Squared Error
*** Cost
*** Complexity
*** True positive rate
*** False positive rate
** Objective scores give each individual a point in objective space
** This may be referred to as the phenotype of the individual

* Pareto Optimality
** An individual is Pareto optimal if there is no other individual in the population that outperforms the individual on all objectives.
** The set of all Pareto individuals is known as the Pareto frontier.
** These individuals represent unique contributions
** We want to drive selection by favoring Pareto individuals
*** But maintain diversity by giving all individuals some probability of mating.

* Nondominated Sorting Genetic Algorithm II (NSGA II) 
** Population is separated into nondomination ranks
** Individuals are selected using a binary tournament
** Lower Pareto ranks beat higher Pareto ranks

* Strength Pareto Evolutionary Algorithm 2
** Each individual is given a strength S
*** S is how many others in the population it dominates
** Each individual receives a rank R
*** R is the sum of S's of the individuals that dominate it
*** Pareto individuals are nondominated and receive an R of 0.
** A distance to the kth nearest neighbor (𝛔k) is calculated and a fitness of R + 1/(𝛔k + 2) is obtained

===Lab 2 (Part II): Multi-Objective Optimization===
* Created new fitness and individual classes as it is a new problem. 
* The two objectives that will be minimized: Mean Squared Error & Size of tree.
* The three new primitives of sin, cos, tan were added and set a seed for randomization. 
* Reinitialized the rest of the toolbox functions.
* Defined the pareto dominance function: returns true if the first individual dominates the second individual. 
* Initialized a random population of 300 individuals and one seperate individual for comparison.
* The population was sorted by pareto dominance in comparison to the sperate individual defined. 
* The objective space plotted using the sorter population.
** Blue = selected individual
** Red = dominators
** Black = uncomparable 
** Green = dominated
* Defined and ran the main evolutionary algorithm that omitted:
** negative(cos(multiply(add(cos(sin(cos(multiply(add(cos(cos(x)), cos(add(multiply(x, x), sin(x)))), tan(x))))), cos(x)), tan(x)))) with fitness: (0.27530582924947056, 25.0)
* Visualized the objective space and pareto front which omitted:
** Area Under Curve: 2.463792426733847
* Implemented a version that produces a 25% or more decrease in the AUC using changes in the following factors:
** NGEN
*** Decrease --> Decrease and Increase --> Increase
** MU
*** Decrease --> Increase and Increase --> Increase
** LAMBDA
*** Decrease --> Decrease and Increase --> Increase
** CXPB
*** Decrease --> Increase and Increase --> Increase
** MUTPB 
*** Increase --> Increase
** Removing one of operator functions: add, subtract, multiply, sin, cos, tan

===Self-Grading===
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1O1iChfPIhI4IgQ1qM6bHCb4pRmuOaBxQ/view?usp=sharing

===Action Items===
{| class="wikitable"
!Task
!Current Status
!Date Assigned
!Suspense Date
!Date Resolved
|-
|Notebook
|Completed
|September 8, 2021
|September 15, 2021
|September 15, 2021
|-
|Review Notes
|Completed
|September 8, 2021
|September 15, 2021
|September 15, 2021
|-
|Self-Grading
|Completed
|September 8, 2021
|September 15, 2021
|September 15, 2021
|-
|Lab 2: Part 2
|Completed
|September 8, 2021
|September 15, 2021
|September 15, 2021
|}

== Week 4 (9/13 - 9/17) ==

=== Lecture Notes (9/15) ===
* Assigned into Bootcamp groups for the rest of the 10 weeks.
** Jordan Stampfli
** Austin Peng
** David Zhang
* Introduced to new resources:
** scikit
** pandas
** numpy
* Introduced and explained the kaggle titanic data set and provided instructions for the upcoming assignment.

=== Sub-team Meeting (9/18) ===
* Began by sharing code via Google Colab
* Used same split as Jupyter Notebook example: 33% in testing
* 4 codominant models: 
**perceptron
** random forest
** logistic regression
** gaussian naive bayes
* I ended up choosing the MLP and found the pareto-optimal fronts. 
* Predictions were found using all of the 4 models and saved as 4 seperate csv files

{| class="wikitable"
!Model
!False Negative
!False Positive
|-
|Perceptron
|30
|27
|-
|Random Forest
|30
|30
|-
|Logistic Regression
|31
|25
|-
|Gaussian
|40
|21
|}

===Action Items===
{| class="wikitable"
!Task
!Current Status
!Date Assigned
!Suspense Date
!Date Resolved
|-
|Notebook
|Completed
|September 15, 2021
|September 15, 2021
|September 15, 2021
|-
|Review Notes
|Completed
|September 15, 2021
|September 23, 2021
|September 22, 2021
|-
|Meet with group
|Completed
|September 15, 2021
|September 23, 2021
|September 18, 2021
|-
|Submit CSV file of titanic test predictions to canvas
|Completed
|September 15, 2021
|September 23, 2021
|September 22, 2021
|}

== Week 5 (9/20 - 9/24) ==

=== Lecture Notes (9/22) ===
* Continue using the titanic dataset, however, use GP this week.
* Either strongly or loosely typed GP are both allowed.
* Do not use the default algorithms that are provided in deap.
* Can use mutation selection.
* Generate a pareto front using the ML co-dominant set and the one generated with GP.
* Hyperparameter tuning can be added as a bonus.

=== Sub-team meeting Notes (9/25) ===
* Focused on the GP impementation for the titanic dataset. 
* There was not much progress made in terms of the overall project as there were multiple eval functions were at our disposal and were not sure about which to use. 
* Worked with David on narrowing down the eval function. chose which primitives and terminals to be used. 

Eval Func:
    def evaluation_func_multi(individual, x_train, y_train, pset):
        func = gp.compile(expr=individual, pset=pset)
        args = [x_train[cols[i]] for i in range(9)]
        predictions = func(*args) 
        confusion = confusion_matrix(y_train, predictions)
        FN = confusion[1,0]
        FP = confusion[0,1]
        positives = np.sum(confusion, axis=1)[0]
        negatives = np.sum(confusion, axis=1)[1]
        #prevent very unequal FN, FP results
        if FN >= positives or FP > negatives:
            return (1000000, 1000000)
        e1 = FN**2 + len(individual) * 20   
        e2 = FP**2 + len(individual) * 20
        return (e1, e2)

* Problems Encountered:
*** Bloat Control Tree Size
*** Selection and Mutation contains a max tree size. 
*** Eval function contains a penalizing factor. 
*** When the tree size was reduced, the speed got faster.
** Boolean Output
*** Strongly typed was used for GP, but loosely typed could have been used as well. 
** Terminals
*** Were not able to be added, attempted to as it would improve the GP results and would allow for comparison to a constant. 
*** As a result, only floats between columns could be compared.
** FP/FN
*** Had to make sure that not a specific results was not completely FN or FP and that there was a variation. 
*** Square the FN and FP values --> Increases distribution 

* After comparing the results from ML and GP, we came to a conclusion that the GP results were more diverse. On the other hand, the ML results kept altering through each iteration.
* Worked on the presentation and created slides 4-7.


===Action Items===
{| class="wikitable"
!Task
!Current Status
!Date Assigned
!Suspense Date
!Date Resolved
|-
|Notebook
|Completed
|September 22, 2021
|September 29, 2021
|September 28, 2021
|-
|Review Notes
|Completed
|September 22, 2021
|September 29, 2021
|September 28, 2021
|-
|Meet with group
|Completed
|September 22, 2021
|September 29, 2021
|September 28, 2021
|-
|Complete and Practice Presentation
|Completed
|September 22, 2021
|September 29, 2021
|September 28, 2021
|-
|Submit CSV with GP
|Completed
|September 22, 2021
|September 29, 2021
|September 28, 2021
|}

== Week 6 (9/27 - 10/1) ==

=== Lecture Notes (9/29) ===
* All of the groups presented their work.

* Link to Group's Presentation: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Y9sf7qndm_UrH_mqs4xi4icQ8vgb7XDbQAEICgRYTFI/edit?usp=sharing

* My Presentation: 
** We started with a variety of machine learning models popular for classification problems including SVM, Random Forests, KNN, Logistic Regression, MLP.
** After testing general performance of each algorithm, we decided that SVM, Random Forests, Logistic Regression, and MLP were the most effective models
** From the pair of models we each tried to optimize the model and tweak hyperparameters offered within sklearn but were unable to create a non-dominated pareto front
** We removed SVM and used the Gaussian Naive Bayes classifier since it was able to produce a model with a higher discrepancy between false negatives and false positives (which made it easier to create the non-dominated pareto front).
** Discussed the 4 models in depth and the FN/FP values of each. 

* Comments/Questions from presentations: 
** MOGP showcased a variety of solutions than ML solutions. In addition, in all of the presentations the MOGP's AUC was loser than that of the ML. 
** Hall of Fame and One Hot Encode need to be explored.

===Action Items===
{| class="wikitable"
!Task
!Current Status
!Date Assigned
!Suspense Date
!Date Resolved
|-
|Notebook
|Completed
|September 29, 2021
|October 6, 2021
|October 5, 2021
|-
|Review Notes on GP 
|Completed
|September 29, 2021
|October 6, 2021
|October 5, 2021
|}

== Week 7 (10/4 - 10/8) ==

=== Lecture Notes (10/6) ===
* Introduction to EMADE
** EMADE: Evolutionary Multi-objective Algorithm Design Engine
** It combines a multi-objective evolutionary search with high-level primitives to automate the process of designing machine learning algorithms. 

* Assignments for this week:
** Follow the install instructions
** Configure a mysql 5.x server on your machine
** Downloaded and install git-ifs
** Cloned the EMADE repository
** Run the setup to install the package. 

* Running EMADE
* What is in the Input File?
** The input file is an xml document that configures all the moving parts in EMADE, we will step through it now.

*Group Assignment:
** Run EMADE
** 1 person sets up the sql server and acts as the master process, while the others should connect their works.
** Run for substantial number of generations.
** Make a plot of non-dominated frontier.
** Compare with ML and MOGP assignments.
** Successful Trees, Plots of AUC, Evacuation Time. 

===Action Items===
{| class="wikitable"
!Task
!Current Status
!Date Assigned
!Suspense Date
!Date Resolved
|-
|Notebook
|Completed
|October 6, 2021
|October 13, 2021
|October 8, 2021
|-
|Review Notes
|Completed
|October 6, 2021
|October 13, 2021
|October 12, 2021
|-
|Meet with group
|Completed
|October 6, 2021
|October 13, 2021
|October 12, 2021
|-
|Install EMADE and SQL 
|Completed
|October 6, 2021
|October 13, 2021
|October 12, 2021
|-
|MOGP Code
|Completed
|October 6, 2021
|October 13, 2021
|October 12, 2021
|}

== Week 8 (10/11 - 10/15) ==

=== Lecture Notes (10/13) ===
* Work day with the group.
* Tried to setup the master program and connect the others via nodes to the MySQL program.
* "mysql -h hostname -u username -d database_name -p"

=== Individual/Group Progress ===
* Ran into numerous problems due to me using a windows OS.
* Needed to create a virtual EMADE environment using python 3.6-3.7 as mine was running on 3.8.
* Still need to resolve the preceding issues.
* However, group member was able to run and find a couple of FN/FP rates. 

===Action Items===
{| class="wikitable"
!Task
!Current Status
!Date Assigned
!Suspense Date
!Date Resolved
|-
|Notebook
|Completed
|October 13, 2021
|October 20, 2021
|October 19, 2021
|-
|Review Notes
|Completed
|October 13, 2021
|October 20, 2021
|October 19, 2021
|-
|Run EMADE
|Completed
|October 13, 2021
|October 20, 2021
|October 19, 2021
|}

== Week 9 (10/18 - 10/22) ==

=== Lecture Notes (10/20) ===
* Workday for the most of session: EMADE master process and midterm presentations.
* Student-run lecture were extremely helpful in figuring out EMADE run process on windows.

=== Individual/Group Progress ===
* Was able to finally run EMADE properly after creating an environment using miniconda3 and python 3.7. 
* Joined as work connections to Leul's master connection.
* Router issues showed so had to fix those and re-join along with Leul.
* Could not produce any values.

===Action Items===
{| class="wikitable"
!Task
!Current Status
!Date Assigned
!Suspense Date
!Date Resolved
|-
|Update Notebook
|Completed
|October 18, 2021
|October 25, 2021
|October 24, 2021
|-
|Review Notes
|Completed
|October 18, 2021
|October 25, 2021
|October 24, 2021
|-
|Run mysql -h hostname -u username -D database -p
|Completed
|October 18, 2021
|October 25, 2021
|October 24, 2021
|-
|Join as worker process EMADE
|Completed
|October 18, 2021
|October 25, 2021
|October 24, 2021
|-
|Finish work on presentation slides
|Completed
|October 18, 2021
|October 25, 2021
|October 25, 2021
|}

== Week 10 (10/25 - 10/29) ==

=== Presentations Notes  (10/25) ===
* My Group's presentation: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1-rH2QW2ZefB9s2M4uVxSMCSXGTUZw3b7pkonOx98CTA/edit?usp=sharing
* Watched the other bootcamp and AAD sub-teams present their projects and findings. 
* Kept track of all of the sub-teams to decide upon which I would like to join. 

=== Individual Presentation Notes ===
* Machine Learning Models Tested: 
** We started with a variety of machine learning models popular for classification problems including SVM, Random Forests, KNN, Logistic Regression, MLP. ** After testing general performance of each algorithm, we decided that SVM, Random Forests, Logistic Regression, and MLP were the most effective models. ** From the pair of models we each tried to optimize the model and tweak hyperparameters offered within sklearn but were unable to create a non-dominated pareto front. 
** We removed SVM and used the Gaussian Naive Bayes classifier since it was able to produce a model with a higher discrepancy between false negatives and false positives (which made it easier to create the non-dominated pareto front)

* Models:
** Multi Layer Perceptron (MLP)
** Random Forest
** Gaussian Naïve Bayes
** Logistic Regression

* Non-Dominated Pareto Front (Machine Learning)
** Model | FN | FP
** GNB | 40 | 21
** MLP | 30 | 29
** RF  | 30 | 30
** LR  | 31 | 25

===Action Items===
{| class="wikitable"
!Task
!Current Status
!Date Assigned
!Suspense Date
!Date Resolved
|-
|Subteam Rankings Assignment on Canvas
|Completed
|October 25, 2021
|Novemeber 1, 2021
|Novemeber 1, 2021
|-
|Update Weekly Notebook
|Completed
|October 25, 2021
|November 1, 2021
|November 1, 2021
|}

== Week 11 (11/1 - 11/5) ==

=== Main Meeting: Weekly Scrum (11/1) ===
* Got assigned to the Modularity sub-team along with Aditya, Adithya, and Leul. 
* How to get on google collab:
** Clone the repo https://github.gatech.edu/vhuang31/emade/tree/master
** If the CloudCopy.sh does not exist in the main directory, go ahead and make it by copying this file here https://github.gatech.edu/vhuang31/emade/blob/ARL_Update/CloudCopy.sh
** If you cannot run CloudCopy.sh (it says something about permission denied), then run chmod +x CloudCopy.sh
** This should create a emade-cloud directory. Upload that directory onto google drive and call it whatever the branch you're working on is (eg, emade-extended-arl) Note that you can call it whatever you want, just make sure to call it something so that you can tell which version of EMADE it is.
** In google drive (or alternatively, you can do this before uploading the files to google drive), open up emade-cloud (or whatever you renamed the folder to) and navigate to templates
** Open input_titanicADFON.xml in a text editor
** Near the top of the file, there should be a dbConfig similar to this one. Edit it to match the following details, with the database renamed to the schema name the run you're trying to join is:
   * server: database-2.ch6igrzmr2yu.us-east-2.rds.amazonaws.com
   * username: admin
   * password: mypassword
   * database: INSERT_SCHEMA_NAME_HERE
   * You'll also want to change the following line to have a max arl size of 10
** In google drive, make a copy of this Google Collab Notebook https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1tUqnDzLHNg7RoYc4sarB3e2k3BvR_7D7?usp=sharing
**  In the notebook, edit the second step %cd /content/gdrive/MyDrive/INSERT-DIRECTORY-NAME-HERE/ to be whatever you renamed your directory in google drive to be. 
** Run all of the commands in the notebook sequentially except for the !python src/GPFramework/seeding_from_file.py [input xml template] [seeding file] command. This seeds the run with individuals, which only needs to be done once by the master process
** Make sure that the !python src/GPFramework/launchEMADE.py -w templates/INSERT-TEMPLATE-FILE-NAME command has the -w flag. Otherwise, you will join as a master process which could cause problems.
** Once the final command has been run, wait ~10 minutes and check the directory in google collab. You should see a new worker####.err and worker#####.out file. Check the worker#####.out file and note its progress. Wait another ~10 minutes and open the worker####.out file again. If nothing new has been written to the file, EMADE is probably not working and something has gone wrong. Otherwise you should be good to go! Alternatively, you could use mysqlWorkbench to check the status of the run.
* Join the run that will take place this weekend.

=== Individual Notes (11/1) ===
* Met with all of the team members over BlueJeans and Slack.
* Cloned the repo: https://github.gatech.edu/vhuang31/emade/tree/master
* Meetings take place every thursday at 11 am:  https://gatech.bluejeans.com/2224273722

=== Modularity Sub-Team Meeting (11/4) ===
* Got introduced more of the team members such as Dip, Tian, Xufei, and Bernadette.
* Continued the on-boarding processes and receiving instructions.

===Action Items===
{| class="wikitable"
!Task
!Current Status
!Date Assigned
!Suspense Date
!Date Resolved
|-
|Update Notebook
|Completed
|November 1, 2021
|November 8, 2021
|November 7, 2021
|-
|Work on the On-Boarding Process: See instructions on individual notes
|Completed
|November , 2021
|November , 2021
|November , 2021
|}

== Week 12 (11/8 - 11/12) ==

=== Main Meeting: Weekly Scrum (11/8) ===
* Finals Hackathon will be held around November 20th week.
* Image Processing:
   * Bug with hyperfeature implementation in EMADE hopefully solved, PR will be opened this week, focus turns to new sharpening hyperfeature.
   * New EMADE environment is still in progress.
   * Newly-processed dataset merging this week.
   * Found an implementation of Lexicase.

* NLP:
   * Resolved issues of Big Merge
   * Divided into new teams to identify further issues in this semester.
   * Receiving a memory error, plan to use unit tests.

* NAS:
   * All new members setup EMADE and run locally or on Pace-ICE.
   * Had a work session.
   * In process to give new names for ADFs that are commonly used in NNLearners. 

=== Meeting with Vincent (11/8) ===
* manually run the contents of the bash script instead of calling the bash script
* If the problem is that when you run the bash reinstall.sh step, it only outputs some quotation marks

=== Individual Notes ===
* Continued the on-boarding process and identified some errors with the CloudCopy.sh file.
* The following errors were being returned: m: cannot remove 'emade-cloud': No such file or directory
   * rm: cannot remove 'hypervolume*': No such file or directory
   * rm: cannot remove 'pare*': No such file or directory
   * rm: cannot remove 'worker*': No such file or directory
   * rm: cannot remove 'master*': No such file or directory
   * rm: cannot remove 'myPickle*': No such file or directory
   * rm: cannot remove 'cache_opt_info*': No such file or directory
   * rm: cannot remove 'db_info*': No such file or directory
* Setup a meeting with Vincent to address the issue.
* Edited the input_titanicADFON.xml to have 5 workers per host (line 100)
* Ran the following command instead of reinstall: !python3 setup.py install
* Joined a run on 11/10/21
* Discussed with Leul about the changes that need to be made to CloudCopy.sh

=== Modularity Sub-Team Meeting (11/11) ===
* Reminder to double check which template your google collab is using- make sure to use input_titanicADFON.xml with schema extendedarl5, and maxadfsize 10
* A new run "extendedarl6" was started and joined as a worker.
* Assigned Tasks: 
   * Learn and fix emade-viz
   * Fix ARL selection
   * Improve CloudCopy.sh script

===Action Items===
{| class="wikitable"
!Task
!Current Status
!Date Assigned
!Suspense Date
!Date Resolved
|-
|Update Notebook
|Completed
|November 8, 2021
|November 15, 2021
|November 14, 2021
|-
|Complete the On-Boarding Process: Fix the reinstall errors
|Completed
|November 8, 2021
|November 15, 2021
|November 10, 2021
|-
|Work with Leul on CloudCopy.sh: Download from Google Drive
|Completed
|November 8, 2021
|November 15, 2021
|November 12, 2021
|-
|Join run as worker
|Completed
|November 8, 2021
|November 15, 2021
|November 10, 2021
|}

== Week 13 (11/15 - 11/19) ==

=== Main Meeting: Weekly Scrum (11/15) ===
* Hackathon meeting will take place November 21st from 1-5pm
* Image Processing: 
   * Most of the team has completed the on-boarding process.
   * Running final experiments on new branch with Python 3.8
   * Did another run with new mutation method
* Modularity: 
   * Fix the CloudCopy.sh: smoother
   * Data visualizationas and CacheV2 integration: begin runs on stocks data soon
* NLP: 
   * NNLearner2 works on classification
   * Have a keras model that builds and layers are able to feed into Keras's LSTM layer.
   * Get Regression working on NNLeraner2 immediately and finish on-boarding.
* NAS:
   * Preprocessing improvements had many positive updates.
   * A literature review is in progress for the final presentation.
   * Integrate weight sharing to existing modules in EMADE.

=== Individual Notes ===
* Worked with Leul on CloudCopy.sh
   * Make infinite copies of datasets
   * Run the CloudCopy.sh on Windows and identify the errors.
   * Address progress bar.
* Joined the extendedarl8 run on 11/15

=== Modularity Sub-Team Meeting (11/18) ===
* Finished extendedarl8 run.
* Have AUC over time array for the new extended arl runs done by Monday.
* Assert AUC[i] = AUC[i+1]
* README includes the instructions.
* CloudCopy changes discussed.

===Action Items===
{| class="wikitable"
!Task
!Current Status
!Date Assigned
!Suspense Date
!Date Resolved
|-
|Update Notebook
|Completed
|November 15, 2021
|November 22, 2021
|November 21, 2021
|-
|Work with Leul on CloudCopy.sh: Progress Bar to avoid infinite loop
|Completed
|November 15, 2021
|November 22, 2021
|November 18, 2021
|-
|Join run as worker
|Completed
|November 15 2021
|November 22, 2021
|November 18, 2021
|}

== Week 14 (11/22 - 11/26) ==

=== Main Meeting: Weekly Scrum (11/22) ===
* Notebooks due date will be revealed.
* Peer Evaluations open up next week.

* Image Processing: 
   * All of the members are setup on Pace-ICE now
   * Didn't have a meeting due to break
   * Low AC for baseline runs
   * Experiments in Python 3.8
* Modularity: 
   * CacheV2 integrations subteam hopes to begin stocks runs soon
   * Continued runs and gathering data for extended ARL experiments
* NLP: 
   * NNLearner2 works on classification
   * Improvements to an experiment the team was planning to run on EMADE.
* NAS:
   * Completed weight sharing and looking into some general bugs that have been noticed during the development process.
   * Merging changes and putting all of the desired EMADE functionality onto NN-VIP.
   * Final presentation being edited by new members.

=== Individual Notes ===
* Joined extendedarl9 run on 11/23
* Run crashed on gen 44, so ended it and start new one tomorrow.
* Joined extendedarl10 run on 11/26
* Continued to make changes to CloudCopy.sh and testing it on Windows with Leul.
* Run crashed again at gen 33.

=== Modularity Sub-Team Meeting (11/25) ===
* No meeting because of Thanksgiving Break.

===Action Items===
{| class="wikitable"
!Task
!Current Status
!Date Assigned
!Suspense Date
!Date Resolved
|-
|Update Notebook
|Completed
|November 22, 2021
|November 29, 2021
|November 28, 2021
|-
|Work with Leul on CloudCopy.sh: Run on Windows OS
|Completed
|November 22, 2021
|November 29, 2021
|November 29, 2021
|-
|Join run as worker
|Completed
|November 22 2021
|November 29, 2021
|November 27, 2021
|}

== Week 15 (11/29 - 12/03) ==

=== Main Meeting (11/29) ===
* Final Presentations: Dec 10th
* Peer Evals Opened: Due Dec 8th 4pm
* Quick short meeting about general updates: presentation coming up, almost done with visualizations, convert AUC to CSV.
* Work-time for the rest of VIP session.
* Image Processing: 
    * NSGA-III and mating methods changes merged
    * Working on presentation as a team.
    * assign remaining assignments and complete slides. 
* Modularity: 
    * Finishing up visualizations of extended arl data from recent runs.
    * Completed CloudCopy.sh fixes and verified on different OS.
    * Last run of extended arl.
* NLP:
    * Continuously progressing with runs. Analysis has not been performed yet.
    * Working on presentation slides.
* NAS:
    * Short meeting due to finals upcoming.
    * Working on presentation slides with each team member having certain slides.

=== Individual Notes ===
* Joined extenderarl11 run on 11/29.
* Completed CloudCopy.sh with updates and verified on Windows OS.
* Need to make changes to final presentations about CloudCopy.sh
* Work on ARL Size and ARL Depth effect on Frequency graphs.

=== Modularity Sub-Team Meeting (12/02) ===
* General updates: presentation coming up, almost done with visualizations, convert AUC to CSV.
* Aim to work on stocks data next week.

===Action Items===
{| class="wikitable"
!Task
!Current Status
!Date Assigned
!Suspense Date
!Date Resolved
|-
|Update Notebook
|Completed
|November 29 2021
|December 06, 2021
|December 05, 2021
|-
|Complete work with Leul on CloudCopy.sh: Finishing touches and push to git
|Completed
|November 29 2021
|December 06, 2021
|December 04, 2021
|-
|Join run as worker
|Completed
|November 29 2021
|December 06, 2021
|December 01, 2021
|}

== Week 16 (12/06 - 12/10) ==

=== Main Meeting (12/06) ===
* Submit Peer Evaluations: Due 12/08 at 4:00pm.
* Notebooks are due 12/13 at midnight.
* Work on presentations and give updates.
* Image Processing:
    * Working on final presentations
* Modularity: 
    * Working on final presentations
* NLP:
    * Working on final presentations
* NAS:
    * Working on final presentations
* Discussed presentations details with Dr. Rohling and Professor Zutty and received suggestions redoing the ARL graphs.
* Was assigned to work on the four graphs with unreliable data during midterm presentations. 
* The first graph: False Positives of individual's containing ARLs in Relation to ARL Size
* The second graph: False Negatives of individual's containing ARLs in Relation to ARL Size
* The third graph: ARL Size in Relation to its frequency on the Pareto Front
* The third graph: ARL Depth in Relation to its frequency on the Pareto Front

=== Individual Notes ===
* Work on the four graphs with unreliable data during midterm presentations.
* Was given access to the arlsizeanalysis.ipynb file by Vincent.
* Compiled all of the data from all of the extended arl runs 5-11 using the following methods:
   for db_num in range (4,12):\n",
           db = MySQLdb.connect(host='database-2.ch6igrzmr2yu.us-east-2.rds.amazonaws.com', user='admin', passwd='mypassword', 
           database=f'extendedarl{db_num}')\n",
           mycursor = db.cursor()\n",
           mycursor.execute(\"SELECT name, expr FROM adf\")\n",
           results = mycursor.fetchall()\n",
* All of the other methods were outside of the For-loop.
* Edited all of the variables to match the data from all of runs combined rather than from one of the runs. 
    * name = f\"{arl_name} db {db_num}\"\n"
    * for i in range(50):\n"
    * for arl_name, ratio in arl_pareto_freq_list:\n",
            size_arr.append(arl_size[f\"{arl_name} db {db_num}\"])\n",
            ratio_size.append(ratio)\n",
    * for arl_name, ratio in arl_pareto_freq_list:\n",
            depth_arr.append(arl_depth[f\"{arl_name} db {db_num}\"])\n",
            ratio_depth.append(ratio)"
    * arl_pareto_freq_list = [(arl_name, arl_freq_pareto[arl_name] / (50 - arl_first_app[arl_name])) for arl_name in arl_first_app.keys()]\n",
        arl_pareto_freq_list.sort(key=lambda x: x[1], reverse=True)\n",
* The following changes were so that the graphs from all of the runs would be represented:
   * color = [[1,0,0,0.3] for i in range(len(arlsize_points))]\n",
        plt.scatter(arlsize_points, fpos_points, c = color)\n",
        plt.xlabel('ARL Size')\n",
        plt.ylabel('False Positives')\n",
        t = plt.title('False Positives of Individuals Containing ARLs in Relation to ARL Size')\n",
        t.set_color(\"black\")\n",
        plt.show()\n",
        plt.clf()\n",
        \n",
        plt.scatter(arlsize_points, fneg_points, c = color)\n",
        plt.xlabel('ARL Size')\n",
        plt.ylabel('False Negatives')\n",
        t = plt.title('False Negatives of Individuals Containing ARLs in Relation to ARL Size')\n",
        t.set_color(\"black\")\n",
        plt.show()\n",
        plt.clf()\n",
        \n",
        f = plt.figure()\n",
        ax = f.add_axes([0,0,1,1])\n",
        ax.bar(range(len(arl_freq_list)), [x[1] for x in arl_freq_list[::-1]])\n",
        plt.show()\n",
        plt.clf()\n",
        \n",
        color = [[1,0,0,0.5] for i in range(len(size_arr))]\n",
        plt.scatter(size_arr, ratio_size, c = color)\n",
        plt.xlabel('ARL Size (# of nodes)')\n",
        plt.ylabel('Frequency')\n",
        t = plt.title('ARL Size in Relation to Its Frequency on the Pareto Front')\n",
        t.set_color(\"black\")\n",
        plt.show()\n",
        plt.clf()\n",
    \n",
        color = [[1,0,0,0.5] for i in range(len(depth_arr))]\n",
        plt.scatter(depth_arr, ratio_depth, c = color)\n",
        plt.xlabel('ARL Depth')\n",
        plt.ylabel('Frequency')\n",
        t = plt.title('ARL Depth in Relation to Its Frequency on the Pareto Front')\n",
        t.set_color(\"black\")\n",
        plt.show()\n",
        plt.clf()"

=== Modularity Sub-Team Meeting (12/09) ===
* Discussed presentation and assigned slides to each member.
* I will be talking about the titanic experimental setup, and ARL graphs.
* Another meeting will take place tomorrow to rehearse before presentation.

=== Modularity Sub-Team Meeting (12/10) ===
* Ran through the presentation at 4pm and refined the slides and the speaking portions.
* Timed the presentation and it was perfect.

=== Final Presentations (12/10) ===
* Image Processing
    * Selection Methods: Lexicase vs Baseline: NSGA2 performed better
    * Two new Geometric Crossover Operations: Partially Matched, Ordered Crossover, Uniform & Multi Point.
    * Future ideas: Emade.py using the selection method specified in XML instead of hard-coded, implement different version of lexicase. 

* NLP
    * Can we use auto-ML to improve Q&A results?
    * Merged existing code for multiple data pairs with nn-vip branch.
    * Maximum reduction in area: 10.96%

*Stocks
    * Applying stock market
    * Plan to publish a paper regarding findings.
    * Future Work: Complete experimental trials, continue comparison of EMADE runs, write and review a paper summarizing the findings.

* Neural Architecture Search
    * Make EMADE create more complex architectures and make it competitive for long term
    * Add new callback called Time Stopping: Time being wasted on errored individuals 
    * What's Next: Don't use residual connection at the beginning of networks, Remove SGD., Experiment with training callbacks
    * Potential Direction: The way that layers is used is important, Original intention was to create novelty metrics with respect to layer 
      frequencies,Immediate value would be found in using novelty metrics with respect to just modules. 

===Action Items===
{| class="wikitable"
!Task
!Current Status
!Date Assigned
!Suspense Date
!Date Resolved
|-
|Finish work on arlsizeanalysis.ipynb: For Loop
|Completed
|December 06, 2021
|December 10, 2021
|December 10, 2021
|-
|Finish Presentation Slides: graphs slides
|Completed
|December 06, 2021
|December 10, 2021
|December 10, 2021
|-
|Update Notebook: Don't forget notes on presentations
|Completed
|December 06, 2021
|December 13, 2021
|December 12, 2021
|}