= Team Member =
Team Member: Shiyi Wang

Email: swang793@gatech.edu

Cell Phone: 470-334-5880

Classes Taking: Advance Internet Computing, Intro to Info Security, Linear Algebra, Tech Communication

Interests: Cooking, Ultimate Frisbee, Phone Photography, Cats 🐈

Subteam: [[Natural Language Processing]] (Current) [[Modularity]] (Past)

Team members: [[Notebook Steven Anthony Leone|Steven Anthony Leone]], [[Notebook Devan Moses|Devan Moses]], [[Notebook Kevin Zheng|Kevin Zheng]], [[Notebook Karthik Subramanian|Karthik Subramanian]], [[Notebook George Ye | George Ye]], [[Notebook Runjie Chen | Jessi Chen]], [[Notebook Rishit Mohan Ahuja | Rishit Mohan Ahuja]], [[Notebook Aditi Prakash | Aditi Prakash]], [[Notebook Manas Harbola | Manas Harbola]]

Link Back to the [https://github.gatech.edu/emade/emade/wiki/Notebook-Shiyi-Wang Original Notebook]

= Spring 2022 =
== Week 1 ==
=== Jan 10, 2022 ===
'''Team Meeting Notes:'''
* Every team is asked to define success of the semester.
** Image Processing: Improve EMADE on image processing tasks with GP, selection methods, mating, mutation methods, and deep learning.
** Modularity: ARL complexity effects on individual & ARL effects on individual objectives.
** Natural Language Processing (NLP): Use AutoML to improve Question and Answering Systems.
** Neural Architectural Search (NAS): Maximizing EMADE Productivity & Growing Deep and Complex Individuals.
* Every team will be sharing the experiment to validate its success.
* Dr. Rohling offered slide review on Thursday.

'''Subteam Meeting Notes:'''
* Tasked everyone with final presentation slides.
* Helped debug EMADE/PACE-ICE issues.
* Updated on the "reuse" parameter of the XML file: reduce instances is set to 1.
* Synchronized on the major updates regarding NNLearner2 last week.
** Changed metrics to be MSE and Num params, so that a start index off by one isn't punished as much as one off by 200.
** NNLearner2's output primitive's dense layer pushes all values to 199 or 200 when using Bidirectional Modeling and Attention primitives.
** Some of our runs aren't using the old embedding layers other than new EmbeddingLayer. 
** Individuals with BERTInputLayer fail altogether in standalone tree evaluator.

'''Individual Progress'''
* I and Rishit presented and finalized the experiment setup with Dr. Zutty & Dr. Rohling.
** Generate Pareto front from each run.
** Insert the seeded individual objectives on the same graph.
*** To retrieve the values, we can evaluate the seed by running [https://github.gatech.edu/emade/emade/blob/master/src/GPFramework/standalone_tree_evaluator.py standalone_tree_evaluator.py].
** Define boundaries by the objectives of the seeded individual.
** Record the Region of Interest (ROI) by difference between bounded region and Pareto front AUC.
*** The greater ROI, the greater improvements.
** For analysis, we can present Bernoulli Distribution and distribution of ROI of different runs.
*** It would be valuable if we have more runs (greater statistical significance).
* I was assigned on Experiment section of the [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1mnFnhxyJnRowr6T-qh05yUMT50rSYqUQig7FIiPekWI/edit?usp=sharing Final Presentation].
* I fixed my EMADE configuration issues thanks to Manas, Karthik, George, Devan, and Rishit.
** Configuration issue: when seeding before EMADE runs, I encountered the issue: NameError: _mysql is not defined.
** Command applied: python3 src/GPFramework/seeding_from_file.py templates/input_squad.xml seeding_qa
** How to locate the causes?
*** I went over the XML file setup with Karthik and made sure that all parameters are ready to go.
*** Rishit's suggestion: pip install mysql: no such module found. No luck.
*** Manas's suggestion: check to [https://github.gatech.edu/emade/emade README.md file] in repository and manually pip install all the requirements: I did so and all requirements are satisfied already. No luck.
*** Devan's suggestion: run [https://github.gatech.edu/emade/emade/blob/master/src/GPFramework/standalone_tree_evaluator.py standalone_tree_evaluator.py] see what may cause the issue: I realized it is a configuration issue because I meet the same problem when running standalone.py (basically same issue in two completely different scenarios).
** How to solve the problem?
*** Rishit shared his YAML file with me and I was able to create a new conda environment with the correct settings.
*** Now, EMADE is working and generating output without errors.

'''Action Items:'''
{| class="wikitable"
!Task
!Current Status
!Date Assigned
!Suspense Date
!Date Resolved
|-
|Complete Peer Evaluation
|Completed
|December 6, 2021
|December 8, 2021
|December 6, 2021
|-
|}