'''2/15/2019'''

Scott attached sensors to a subjects occipital lobe, passed that EEG data through FFT and 8-12hz bandpass, and they can visually identify when the 

subject is closing their eyes.  

'''3/1/2019''' 

Scott sent us a paper: "A cryptography-based approach for movement decoding." He wants us to read this because the grad student also had data that  

was extremely messy just like ours. 

'''3/29/2019''' 

We brought on new members. 

I will be looking at Hilbert Transform over the weekend.  

== 4/6/2019 ==

=== Things I learned ===

==== Hilbert Transform ====
The Hilbert Transform is an alternative method for extracting the magnitude and phase information from EEG data.

Originally, we can perform convolution on a complex Morlet wavelet and get the time series of complex dot products. This time series allows us to extract the 

projection onto the real-axis (this is the band-pass filter portion of the signal), we can square the distance from the origin to the dot product to get the power time series, and

the angle of the vector with respect to the real-axis gives us the phase angle.

'''<u>But Nick, why should I care about this Hilbert Transform?</u>'''

Young Padawan, you should care because the Hilbert Transform is useful in calculating the instantaneous attributes of a time-series. An instantaneous attribute is 

the attribute of the series at any point in time. This information is extremely useful when trying to analyze signals.

If you have the following real sine wave: A * cos ( 2 * pi  * f * t ).

You can transform this into a complex sinusoidal representation: i * A * sin (2 * pi * f * t ). This complex wave can be used to extract phase and power. 

Note: The above complex wave is also called the phase - quadrature component.

'''<u>Steps for Hilbert Transform</u>'''

Step 1: Take FFT of signal

Step 2: Rotate Fourier Coefficients

Step 3: Take iFFT of rotated Fourier Coefficients

Step 4: ??? Get back time series

Step 5: Profit

== 4/12/2019 ==

=== Team Meeting ===
Scott has created an easy way to seed a primitive into an evolutionary run.

Steps:

1) Make primitive

2) Place primitive in source code. Just paste your primitive into a logical place.

3) Go to GPFramework_helper, import your primitive, and add it to pset. There are example of primitives being added to the pset.

The primitives are strongly typed so make sure to abide by those rules.

4) Make text of Individual that you want seeded in

5) Then seed it in with the following command: Python src/GPFramework/seeding_from_file.py templates/input_emotion.py name_of_your_text_file

==== Tasks ====
Try and get Hilbert Transform primitive working and seeded if Scott gets an evolutionary run.

== Scott refers to himself in the third person, he also eats cashews ==

== Overall Task List ==
{| class="wikitable"
!Task
!Current Status
!Date Assigned
!Suspense Date
!Date Resolved
|-
|Read paper Scott sent to slack channel and critique
|Finished
|Jan 7, 2019
|
|1/24/2019
|-
|Need to make sure all package versions are correct
|Just installed conda
|2/1/2018
|
|
|-
|Install emade
|Installed emade
|1/22/2018
|
|2/1/2019
|-
|Implement bug fix for returning results
|<s>Inserted code. Follow up with</s> 
<s>Jason about what needs to be</s>

<s>cleared  Need to alter how gtMoep.py</s>

<s>is handling test classes because</s>

<s>it is now returning classes directly.</s>
|2/1/2019
|
|
|-
|Help Scott at Emory with data collection calibration
|Finished
|2/18/2019
|
|2/18/2019
|-
|<s>Find out how to put out data from dataPair. Need</s>
<s>to find out how to get FFT from dataPair</s>
|Don't need that anymore
|2/17/2019
|
|
|-
|<s>Read paper</s>
|Don't need this anymore
|3/1/2019
|
|
|-
|learn about Power Source Density 
|
|3/15/2019
|
|
|-
|Help Scott with collecting EEG on mah brain
|Done. But Scott said my data is too noisy.
|3/29/2019
|
|3/29/2019
|-
|Trying to get conda env to work
|Issues with python version
|4/6/2019
|
|
|-
|Get Hilbert Transform primitive
|Blocked by issue above
|4/6/2019
|
|
|}