= Team Member =

Team Member: Aditya Kumaran

Email: akumaran6@gatech.edu
Cell Phone: +1 4708380468

Interests: Writing fiction, Music, Reading, Sports

= Spring 2022 =

Team: NLP

Members: Steven Leone, Devan Moses, Kevin Zheng, Karthik Subramanian, Rishit Ahuja, Diptendu Maity, Manas Harbola, Jessi Chen, Shiyi Wang, David Zhang, Aditi Prakash, Anish Thite, George Ye, Yisu Ma

== January 10, 2022 (Week 1) == 

=== Lecture Notes: ===
*  First week back; reintroduced to VIP by Dr. Zutty and Dr. Roehling. 
*  Decided subteams, Dr. Roehling introduced a possible new idea for scoliosis data processing, which I found interesting.
*  Broke into breakout rooms, I temporarily joined the scoliosis study team.
*  Joined the team slack, reported my availability times for team meetings.
*  We decided that we'd read the research papers shared by Dr. Roehling before the 24th of January, and prepare any questions we have about scoliosis.
*  A meeting is scheduled with the hospital on the 24th, which will be our introduction to the project.

=== Individual Notes: ===
*  Updated notebook, linked second notebook to original.
*  Decided that the NLP subteam would be good preparation for the NLP work I'll be doing over the summer, informed Harris and switched teams.
*  Joined the NLP slack. Team meeting is tentatively on Friday at 10 am.

=== Action Items: ===
{| class="wikitable"
!Task
!Current Status
!Date Assigned
!Suspense Date
!Date Resolved
|-
|Select Subteam, Join Slack
|Complete
|January 10, 2022
|January 24, 2022
|January 10, 2022
|-
|Update Weekly Notebook
|Complete
|January 10, 2022
|January 24, 2022
|January 10, 2022
|}