=== Aryaan Mehra ===
* Email: aryaan@gatech.edu
* Phone: 678-979-6968
* Interests: Machine Learning, finance, swimming
* Teammates: Harris, Maxim, Dhruv, Heidi, Temi, Monil
= Fall 2021 = 
== October 4th, 2021 == 
'''Team Meeting Notes:''' 
* I spoke to Temi separately since we are working together on the crossover functions. We will be implementing some of these crossover functions over the next week. These include different types of semantic and geometric crossover operators.
* I will also finish the peer evaluations before Friday this week.
{| class="wikitable"
!Assignment 
!Current Status
!Date Assigned
!Suspense Date
!Date Resolved
|-
|Code some of the crossover functions out
|In Progress
|October 4th, 2021
|October 13th, 2021
|-
|-
|Set Up PACE
|In Progress
|October 4th, 2021
|October 13th, 2021
|-
|-
|Complete Peer Evaluations
|In Progress
|October 4th, 2021
|October 13th, 2021
|-
|}
== September 27th, 2021 == 
'''Team Meeting Notes:''' 
* I completed the image preprocessing work and created a dataset of 5000 images from which 1000 were augmented appropriately.
* Here is the link to the python file with the code: https://github.gatech.edu/athite3/chestxray/blob/master/Preprocessing_Consolidated.py
* The preprocessing including the resize, augmentation and data prep for emade are all in this one file now and there's no need to be running multiple files to work with the data.

{| class="wikitable"
!Assignment 
!Current Status
!Date Assigned
!Suspense Date
!Date Resolved
|-
|Look for exact Crossover and Mutation functions
|In Progress
|September 27th, 2021
|October 4th, 2021
|-
|-
|Set Up PACE
|In Progress
|September 27th, 2021
|October 4th, 2021
|-
|}
== September 22nd, 2021 == 
'''Subteam Meeting Notes:''' 
* Each of us discussed the progress that we had made till now. I had started the preprocessing work, gotten a dataset ready and also discussed some of the strategies for new crossover and mutation methods. 
* Max and I discussed image augmentation for data preprocessing at length and decided to use the Keras API i.e. image data generator for the purpose of augmenting the images. 
* Here are the augmentations that we will be implementing:
** Image resize and normalization
** Horizontal flipping, shear transforms
** Cropping, translations and rotations
* Here is Anish's existing repo of code which I will be building upon: https://github.gatech.edu/athite3/chestxray
{| class="wikitable"
!Assignment 
!Current Status
!Date Assigned
!Suspense Date
!Date Resolved
|-
|Complete Pre-processing data
|Completed
|September 22nd, 2021
|September 27th, 2021
|September 25th, 2021
|-
|Research Crossover and mutation Strategies
|Completed
|September 22nd, 2021
|September 27th, 2021
|September 25th, 2021
|}
== September 20th, 2021 == 
'''Team Meeting Notes:''' 
* We discussed the goal of the team and what we had achieved thus far. 
* Discussed the difficulty in finding information for hyper-feature packaging in the literature.
* I will be creating a branch for the Image Processing team from the nn-vip repo and add the chest x-ray dataset into it so that we can use it effectively. 
{| class="wikitable"
!Assignment 
!Current Status
!Date Assigned
!Suspense Date
!Date Resolved
|-
|Speak with Anish
|Completed
|September 15th, 2021
|September 22nd, 2021
|September 17th, 2021
|-
|Begin Pre-processing data
|Completed
|September 15th, 2021
|September 22nd, 2021
|September 22nd, 2021
|-
|Research Crossover and mutation Strategies
|Completed
|September 15th, 2021
|September 22nd, 2021
|September 22nd, 2021
|}
== September 15th, 2021 == 
'''Subteam Meeting Notes:''' 
* We discussed next steps for the image processing subteam and Jason also joined the meeting to discuss potential areas for improvement and next steps for the team as a whole. 
* We each had found one research paper do discuss and I found a couple which dealt with Autonomous Vehicles and image classification. In the end we agreed on working with the Chest X-ray dataset and improve upon a previous subteams work.
* Here are the overarching tasks for next week:
** Data preparation
*** Downsample (greyscale, lower resolution, balancing)
*** Talk to Anish
*** Try it out with EMADE as is
** Selection methods
*** NSGA3, Lexicase, etc.
*** Hypervolume indicator
*** Hyper-feature packaging
** Clever mating and mutation
*** Improve existing primitives
*** Semantic crossover
* I will be working with Maxim on the data pre-processing and also researching some interesting crossover and mutation strategies. 
* Max and I also spoke with Anish and here are the notes from our conversation: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1755uB7JKe1NMVQIE-bMr6wpuaCp3niDnOX3k5_0ghMg/edit?usp=sharing
{| class="wikitable"
!Assignment 
!Current Status
!Date Assigned
!Suspense Date
!Date Resolved
|-
|Speak with Anish
|Completed
|September 15th, 2021
|September 22nd, 2021
|September 17th, 2021
|-
|Begin Pre-processing data
|Completed
|September 15th, 2021
|September 22nd, 2021
|September 22nd, 2021
|-
|Research Crossover and mutation Strategies
|Completed
|September 15th, 2021
|September 22nd, 2021
|September 22nd, 2021
|}
== September 13th, 2021 == 
'''Team Meeting Notes:'''
* Here is my self evaluation: https://docs.google.com/document/d/18q67t96hbUZOVGvsN2GpRRFAtC0Dzzj-XTIpCtf2VqQ/edit?usp=sharing
* Listened to all of the different subteams and their progress over the last 3 weeks. 
* We discussed next steps for the image processing subteam with Jason and he told us to make a decision regarding whether we are focussing on a classification or detection problem. 
* We each had found one research paper do discuss and I found one which was focused on object detection through masks.
* We decided that for Wednesday all of us should find one paper and dataset related to image classification to discuss during the Wednesday meeting so we can begin to work on replicating the results. 
* Jason will be joining our subteam meeting on Wednesday to assist us as well. 
{| class="wikitable"
!Assignment 
!Current Status
!Date Assigned
!Suspense Date
!Date Resolved
|-
|Find a research paper to discuss for Wednesday
|In Progress
|September 13th, 2021
|September 15th, 2021
|September 14th, 2021
|}
== September 9th, 2021 == 
'''Subteam Meeting Notes:'''
* We have decided on a team meeting every Wednesday at 5:45pm. I made the Google drive and took notes here: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1IRk4E5YBhr0adXikULUOvEEea6jgxWMw
* We discussed our goals as a team and after thinking of some ideas, we decided on the following action items:
** We will be each familiarizing ourselves with the EMADE codebase, how to start EMADE runs, different primitives, etc. 
** We will each read at least 1 research paper of interest related to an image processing problem to decide how we can begin this semesters research.
* We will be trying to find interesting papers which apply either GP approaches or traditional ML approaches to an image processing problem and recreate it in EMADE. We will be implementing new primitives and going off of the work that the NAS team did in their research paper last semester. 
* The research paper that I found was https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1568494604000316.
** The paper goes through a genetic approach to multi-object detection in an image
** In our subteam meeting I had mentioned image captioning but something we can try doing before that would be object detection. Single object or multi-object detection. Good datasets (possibly): MS COCO, with a variety of different objects
{| class="wikitable"
!Assignment 
!Current Status
!Date Assigned
!Suspense Date
!Date Resolved
|-
|Read paper published by VIP subteam
|Complete
|September 6th, 2021
|September 13th, 2021
|September 11th, 2021
|- 
|Go through EMADE Codebase
|Complete
|September 6th, 2021
|September 13th, 2021
|September 11th, 2021
|-
|Find potential dataset/paper to work with
|In progress
|September 6th, 2021
|September 13th, 2021
|September 12th, 2021
|}
== August 30th, 2021 == 
''' Team Meeting Notes: '''
* Maxim, Harris, and I met to discuss possible directions for the new image processing subteam and we discussed some of the research papers that Maxim had found. We thought that image registration might be an interesting direction and if not we could also look at some more basic image classification problems and think through the creation of better primitives. 
* Jason thought that image registration might not be the best strategy because of the lack of available data but we will be discussing more application for image processing later. 
''' Action Items: '''
{| class="wikitable"
!Assignment 
!Current Status
!Date Assigned
!Suspense Date
!Date Resolved
|-
| Agree on Date for Subteam Meetings
| Completed
| August 30th, 2021
| September 6th, 2021
| September 1st, 2021
|}
== August 23rd, 2021 ==
''' Team Meeting Notes: '''
* I initially attended this team meeting remotely since I wasn't yet on campus. I thought that both NAS and image processing with Auto ML were great subteams to join since I had significant past experiences with deep nets, especially with computer vision.
* Through the image processing slack I was able to meet up with Maxim and Harris to discuss some of the potential ways in which the new image processing subteam might work this semester.
* I initially thought that there could be many applications like image denoising, image enhancement, image registration and many of these kinds of processing fields within AutoML.
''' Action Items:'''
{| class="wikitable"
!Assignment 
!Current Status
!Date Assigned
!Suspense Date
!Date Resolved
|-
| Submit Subteam Rankings
| Completed
| August 23rd, 2021
| August 29th, 2021
| August 29th, 2021
|}
=== My notebook was deleted entirely in that I cannot find any of my previous work that was on the Wiki from the prior semesters so here's the link to the Wikipedia Wiki: https://wiki.vip.gatech.edu/mediawiki/index.php/Notebook_Aryaan_Anuj_Mehra ===