'''[https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1C4GkdV0JULCpkAxhF5Hrs9FBrNw6moJDuEFh1nZptYw/edit#slide=id.p Presentation Link]'''

'''Executive Summary'''
* Problem Description
** Stock analysis has always been a topic of much interest, and also happens to be an area of study of a few of our own group members. Many have tried to develop predictive algorithms and have achieved varying levels of success, and we, as a group, felt that this particular area could be very easily adaptable to the framework of EMADE, thus leading us to the goal of utilizing the tools provided by this VIP team in order to attempt to combine the current working knowledge of stock data and patterns with EMADE’s ability to excel in multi-objective optimization. The problem we are specifically tackling is to try to generate trading signals using time series stock data.
* Why is this problem is Important
** Though our motivation may seem purely monetary, it cannot be denied that the stock market, and specifically stock market analysis has been an area of constant fascination. The prediction of such volatile and noisy data has never been accomplished with a sufficient degree of accuracy, yet with the capabilities of EMADE at our disposal, we feel that we may be able to build from where others have left off, and achieve an end result that will be formidable both in its consequences for time series stock data, as well as the technical innovation necessary to achieve such success. This problem in and of itself may not seem to hold much weight, yet the consequences of being able to solve the prediction of such a complex and nuanced system would be vast, and would open the door to many more opportunities down the road, especially in terms of the application of EMADE and the problems that it might be able to solve.
* What defines success for this project
** The overall goal of the Stock Market Challenge is to use genetic programming to develop machine learners that reliably create rules for buying and selling stocks. In order to achieve this broad goal we must first resolve a number of smaller objectives. Success would be realized if we can accurately determine that the primitives implemented for this problem have a positive impact on the success of generating buying/selling signals. We would then attempt to further our success by applying the individuals created by EMADE to accurately determine buy/sell commands that would ideally be able to generate a profit.

* Past and Future
** What has been done before?
*** There has been a wide variety of research done on the use of genetic algorithms and genetic programming in terms of its application to stock data. Our group has sought to document and reference many of these sources in our Wiki page <!-- Insert link here -->so as to ensure that all group members have access to the same background information. Through these articles, journals, and web pages, we have found that these techniques have broadly been used to pre-process specific data. Few, if any, sources detailed the further use of genetic programming to actually optimize information, instead favoring more standard machine learning techniques such as random forests or neural networks. Moreover, while a good deal of works do site their use of genetic algorithms or genetic programming, much of this research was completed over five years ago at the earliest, and does not include their distinctive code of specific application. Thus, we have come to determine that while this was an area of interest, little is currently being done to develop this methodology.
** Compare and contrast the proposed method with the past
*** What are you using from the past?
**** It is clear that genetic algorithms and programming do have serious strengths in terms of being able to determine the importance of various indicators during the stage of data pre-processing. We will seek to employ EMADE to aid us in that stage as we begin to program stock technicals as primitives within EMADE and then will use the individuals that EMADE produces in order to distinguish which of the technicals, and therefore, which of the data, is actually the most useful for our purposes.
*** What are you adding?
**** Where historically researchers have leaned towards classical machine learning techniques in the past, we will still seek to employ EMADE toward our endeavors, as we feel that EMADE has been pigeonholed towards a very specific task set in the past, and we believe that positive results can be achieved in breaking those preconceived notions.
* '''Project Plan'''
** Tasks to be completed
*** Be SMART, (Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Realistic and Timely)
*** Current team member assignments to tasks:
**** Yalini and Guergana
***** Extensive search and analysis of potential technicals for stock evaluation given our current data set
***** Documentation of findings and processes via the team Wiki
**** Jas and Alen
***** Programming of the technicals used for stock analysis as functional primitives within emade
***** Data preprocessing for certain data sets
**** James
***** Data preprocessing in order to ensure functionality with emade
***** Current troubleshooting of emade
*** Current skill needs
**** Experience in the use of SQL
**** Potential background or interest in financial data analysis
**** Experience with time series data.
*** What would new team members do?
**** Future analysis of the individuals
**** Seeded individual testing
**** More programming of technicals as primitives within emade
** Configuration/Management Plan
*** is the schedule realistic? Who is tracking it?
**** We believe our schedule to be realistic and in line with the amount of time and effort it has taken us to complete similar tasks in the past. Guergana will be noting our progress as the semester continues and ensure that the self-directed deadlines be met, though any modifications can be made at the request of any group member and will be done with the consultation of the group as a whole.
{| class="wikitable"
| colspan="4" |Tentative Schedule
|-
|Date:
|Before Class:
|Class:
|To Do:
|-
|Week of 02/26
|Prepare written proposal

Continue developing technicals as primitives within EMADE
|Listen to first semester VIP presentations

Look at setting up emade on other computers in order to attempt to establish workers
|Ask about emade of other computers, potential bug?

Potentially set up a meeting to discuss proposal?

Have the code finished for another two primitives within EMADE
|-
|Week of 03/05
|Have two or three slides prepared to present our proposal to the first semester students
|Second Semester Proposal Presentations!
|Continue implementing primitives and, if emade is working, test datasets with current primitives
|-
|Week of 03/12
|Ensure the development of primitives

Have functioning workers in order to run EMADE
|Have EMADE running with at least 6 possible primitives<!-- New stock specific primitives? -->
|Beginning discussing the best method of analysis of the individuals developed by EMADE
|-
|Week of 03/19
| colspan="3" |Spring Break
|-
|Week of 03/26
|Discuss future projects with the new recruits
|Begin analyzing the better technicals, and see if the individuals can produce real results
|
|-
|Week of 04/02
|<!-- I think you need more "SMART" goals dates established here.
Otherwise you won't know when you are behind. -->
|
|
|-
|Week of 04/09
|<!-- Also think about an action item list -->
|
|
|-
|Week of 04/16
|
|
|
|-
|Week of 04/23
|
|
|
|-
|Future Plans:
|
|}
* Where is data kept?
** The data is currently being kept in our group’s GitHub, though we do understand that we will need to establish an organizational framework so that all of our future results might be kept within easy access of our group members and any future group members or interested individuals. Good bookkeeping is very much one of our goals moving forward, and will likely take place digitally through the team Wiki and GitHub, as most of our modifications will be pertaining to code. This will be established better once we have EMADE up and running and have recruited the new members from the first years so that we might see if among our team members there is an individual more suited to the task.
* Documentation on Wiki
** While all of our team members continue to have access to our Wiki and will continue to make additions and modifications as needed, Yalini and Guergana have sought to expand our specific stock sub-team Wiki, and are generally responsible for most direct documentation.