== Overview ==
The quintessential problem in financial trading has always been accurately predicting the rise and fall of a particular stock. Applying machine learners to this problem does help technical analysts predict stock outcomes, but because of the significantly large search space of the problem, it is difficult to develop machine learners to accurately and reliably produce trading rules. By using genetic programming to develop learners out of a population we are able to more efficiently produce learners that may perform better than traditional machine learning algorithms.

===Goals===
----
The overall goal of the Stock Market Challenge is to use genetic programming to develop machine learners that reliably create rules for buying and selling stocks. In order to achieve this broad goal we must first resolve a number of smaller objectives.

'''1''': Find relevant objectives that we wish to maximize or minimize. Since EMADE has multi-objective capabilities, it would be very useful to consider different features of stock data as objectives which we may want to optimize.

'''2''': Determine how to apply/adjust EMADE to our stock trading problem. This will require the team to obtain basing working knowledge on technical analysis of trading stocks.

'''3''': Outline the best technical analysis features that would be useful in using genetic programming. This will be beneficial for future studies involving genetic programming and stock market predictions.

'''4''': Feature selection for optimizing the objective. A significant portion of this project will be determining what features will be most useful in predicting trading rules.

===Members===

----
[[User:Jrick6|James Rick]] <br>
[[User:Nwan3|Nicholas See Wan]] <br>
[[Kirtan Saurabh Patel]] <br>
[[Jaswanth Sai Pyneni]] <br>
[[Yalini Senthil Kumar]] <br>
[[Guergana Plamenova Ilieva]] <br>
[[Wesley E Cheung]] <br>
Alen Polakof<br>

=== Sub-Teams ===
----
[[Fundamental Analysis Team]] <br>

[[Technical Analysis Team]] <br>

===Resources===

----

==== Starting out ====
Stocks
* [[Vocabulary]] 
* [https://www.udacity.com/course/machine-learning-for-trading--ud501 Machine Learning For Trading Videos] 
NLP
* [https://cs224d.stanford.edu/lecture_notes/LectureNotes1.pdf Introduction to word embeddings] 
* [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OQQ-W_63UgQ&list=PL3FW7Lu3i5Jsnh1rnUwq_TcylNr7EkRe6 Standford YouTube NLP Series] 
* [http://bionlp-www.utu.fi/wv_demo/ Word embedding interactive demo] 

==== Articles ====
# General Trading
#* [https://ac.els-cdn.com/S0305054803000637/1-s2.0-S0305054803000637-main.pdf?_tid=6867db3a-fec3-11e7-8c3f-00000aacb361&acdnat=1516550268_558e804586061d96a80a93606eed8596 Generating trading rules on stock markets with genetic programming] 
#* [https://ac.els-cdn.com/S0957417411000595/1-s2.0-S0957417411000595-main.pdf?_tid=37e23f3c-fec3-11e7-b78d-00000aacb35d&acdnat=1516550187_03bd733e2171c8c9f555410bd73c2e72 A genetic programming model to generate risk-adjusted technical trading rules in stock markets] 
#* [https://ac.els-cdn.com/S0925231209001878/1-s2.0-S0925231209001878-main.pdf?_tid=c56b11fe-fec2-11e7-86ae-00000aab0f6b&acdnat=1516550003_9873b75934b10740b9541adcb5b6ac7d A hybrid stock trading system for intelligent technical analysis-based equivolume charting] 
#* [https://ac.els-cdn.com/S156849461500438X/1-s2.0-S156849461500438X-main.pdf?_tid=0219e666-fec3-11e7-82ed-00000aab0f27&acdnat=1516550097_2c109ab5829d31e4e344f8c03fbaa56b Application of evolutionary computation for rule discovery in stock algorithmic trading: A literature review] 
#* [https://ac.els-cdn.com/S0957417400000270/1-s2.0-S0957417400000270-main.pdf?_tid=413aeb34-ff8a-11e7-8f7d-00000aab0f6c&acdnat=1516635673_3c9614b8ccc347ee183b4493091119e5 Genetic algorithms approach to feature discretization in artificial neural networks for the prediction of stock price index] 
#* [https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1023%2FA%3A1008768404046.pdf Genetic Programming Prediction of Stock Prices]
#* [http://jonathankinlay.com/2014/06/developing-trading-strategies-with-genetic-programming/ Developing High Performing Trading Strategies with Genetic Programming] 
#* [https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231217311086 Genetic Programming Optimization for a Sentiment Feedback Strength Based Trading Strategy] 
#* [http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=8212724 Stock Price Prediction Using Genetic Algorithms and Evolution Strategies] 
#* [https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1877042812023555 Application of Genetic Algorithms in Stock Market Simulation] 
#* [http://econwpa.repec.org/eps/exp/papers/0404/0404007.pdf Genetic Algorithms: Genesis of Stock Evaluation] 
#* [http://neuro.bstu.by/ai/To-dom/My_research/Paper-0-again/For-research/D-mining/Finance/Stock-market/DM2004.pdf The Applications of Genetic Algorithms in Stock Market Data Mining Optimization]
# News Integration / Headline semantic analysis
#* [http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/6574843/ An Automated Framework for Incorporating News into Stock Trading Strategies]
#* [http://www.uvm.edu/pdodds/files/papers/others/2007/godbole2007a.pdf Large-Scale Sentiment Analysis for News and Blogs]
#*[https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167923613000651 Automated news reading: Stock price prediction based on financial news using context-capturing features]

==== Tools ====
* [https://www.alphavantage.co/documentation/ API documentation for getting real-time stock data] 
* [https://nlp.stanford.edu/sentiment/ Stanford Sentiment Analysis tool] 
* [https://gist.github.com/wcheung8/c73a46c79e947ac625bacd3a079fd7a9 News Scraper] 
* Stock Scraper 

==== Datasets ====
* [https://www.kaggle.com/pbolleddu2320/stock-market-prediction-with-python/data Daily News for Stock Market Prediction]
'''Presentations'''
* [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/11jRUnK33x8x3L768JHxB6ARWYsj29C9f42SjwK5JCcI/edit?usp=sharing News Feature]